[MUSIC PLAYING]
-Hey, it's me.
I'm the one that got fired.
I'm gone.
You don't know that.
But what if it is?
If it is, stay calm.
Look him straight in the
eye and say, I understand.
Be a man.
Something good
will come from it.
Michael, Mr. Kendrick
wants to see you.
Pete is a great
worker, and he's really
afraid he's going to get fired.
And he's an excellent
worker, you know.
OK, Michael, I'm sorry.
I know you've been
with us for 14 years,
but we are going to
have to let you go.
I understand.
Whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa.
Whoa, I thought-- I thought
I had five months to pay.
Pay your mortgage.
That's all I got to say.
That's all you got for me?
That's all I got to say to you.
Thanks Mr. Empathy.
MAN: That's right.
Appreciate it.
And if you touch
the sign, there's
going to be a problem here.
Oh, there's going to
be a problem from you?
-That's right.
-What if I don't touch the sign?
What if I'm this close?
-Don't touch it.
What about this?
Does that mess
with your universe?
Pretty close.
You know, just trespassing.
Go, shoo.
Yeah, I just posted 222.
It's natural to feel
frustrated from time to time.
Even the best of us get caught
up in negative emotions.
It's even more important
not to get down on yourself
for getting angry, because
then more than likely,
you're going to project
that anger out onto others,
even people you love.
You know, we're going
to try the summer
lobster dinner for two.
Sounds terrific.
And that's just for me.
No it's not.
The key is to realign with
your original, authentic passion
and then commit to it, and
don't accept anything that
doesn't support the real you.
-So it's movie night.
-Yes.
And I know you wanted
to see "The Captain
of the World" movie.
Oh, no, no.
Honey, it's-- it's
"Captain America."
OK.
But there's a movie at the Kino
called "The Keeper of the Keys"
that I really wanted
to see together.
"Keeper of the Keys."
Is that the new Nick Cage film?
-No.
It's a documentary about seven
keys that can change your life.
Ooh, no, no, no, no.
Honey, one of those talking
head transformational
documentaries about how
to make a better life?
I don't-- ah-- I don't think
I can see that on movie night.
You know, I think
I'd rather shoot
myself in the head with a rubber
bullet than see that movie.
Ooh, a negative reaction.
What a surprise.
What's that supposed to mean?
It means that every
time I've tried
to bring something new
to our relationship,
you make fun of me.
Well, I'm sorry,
but I don't think
I'm alone when I
say there have been
countless books and
movies all claiming
to have the secret to life.
I mean, you got "The
Four Contracts,"
"The Seven Positive Laws,"
"The Nine Prerogatives."
You know the guy who wrote
"The Nine Prerogatives" lives
in a hut on a beach in Kauai?
-Sounds amazing.
He has no adversity whatsoever.
He doesn't need all
nine prerogatives.
He'd get along
with three or four.
I'd need, like, 11.
And then years later, a
new edition comes out.
Suddenly there's five contracts,
there's eight positive laws.
What about the poor sucker
who bought the first edition?
What, he's kind of enlightened?
You know what I'm going to do?
I'm going to write my
own self-help book.
It's going to be
called the one and only
ultimate book of enlightenment
that you ever need ever.
-Oh yeah?
-Yeah.
It's going to be 750 pages long.
Page one, it's going to say
do what you can then stop.
The rest will be totally blank.
Flowers, flowers.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Stop, stop, stop.
Please, I'm sorry.
I'm really sorry.
I know I'm negative sometimes.
I had these hidden behind
the-- just take them.
I'm sorry.
Only works if you
really mean it, man.
Thank you, Dr. Phil.
Can I keep these?
No, you can't keep them.
[GROAN]
I need to be with
somebody who's not negative
all the time.
Oh, now I'm negative
That's just ridiculous.
My painting.
Wow, is that Anne's too?
Yes it is.
Has she sold any yet?
Like to who, a therapist?
They can use it as
a Rorschach test.
I see a bunny.
I see a wilting tornado.
I see disco parsley.
You hear something?
-No.
What are you looking at?
Oh.
Look, that was
just me projecting
my own ignorance outward, OK.
I know nothing
about art, nothing.
It hurt.
I wish you the best.
Write down every
negative thought
you've had in the last year.
I dare you.
Well see, that's funny.
That's incorrect, but funny.
Hey, if you're going, take your
damn Rorschach test with you.
God damn it.
Fine.
I'm keeping it.
It's mine now.
Oh, just fine.
Just--
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All right, there may
have been one or two
moments that were not my best.
"Dead Poets Society"
is in your top 10?
Yeah, it's like my top two.
Excuse me, how could you not
like "Dead Poets Society"?
Because the whole seize the
day thing, seize the day,
seize the day, carpe
diem, it was on bumper
stickers and t-shirts.
Ever since I saw
that movie, I've
been working my
ass off terrified
I wasn't seizing the damn day.
-The classroom scene?
-Yeah.
Made me a workaholic.
Thank you.
Are you happy?
---a ticket here.
This is all you have
to do with your life
is to site me for
being 29 inches
from the curb instead of 18.
That's it.
That's all you got.
Look, I don't want any more
of this from you, mister.
You want me take you downtown,
because that's the next step?
You like that?
If I have to go
anywhere with you,
I'm just going to kill myself.
I can take you right
downtown, and you can spend
24 to 48 hours in the jail.
You want that?
I'd rather smack myself in
the face with a wet spatula
than spend time with you.
You need some work
on how to drive,
on how to deal with
the city officials.
Please counsel me.
Please, give me all
the advice you can.
I'm really going
to listen to you.
-Sir, just take your violation.
-You especially.
Sir, just take your violation.
I'm just going to
soak it up like--
"A Christmas Carol" is
your favorite movie.
What's not to love about
"A Christmas Carol"?
Because the end is criminal.
It's criminal.
Everyone goes oh,
Scrooge had an awakening.
I should be able to muster one.
Well you know what?
Scrooge was rich.
He was ravenously rich.
No wonder it was so
easy for him to flip
a switch into Happyville.
The man was freaking loaded.
(MOCKING) You will be
visited by three ghosts.
What?
I'm sorry.
How can you not love it?
Jacob Marley.
Or is it Bob Marley?
It's not about--
it's not about that.
The ghost of Bob Marley.
That's a film I would see.
JACK (VOICEOVER): I know
you feel like a victim,
but the only thing
you're a victim of
is your own negative thinking.
You know Michael, you can
run from your problems
and you can mask them with
alcohol and drugs and all kinds
of activity, but when you
wake up in the morning,
you're going to be hung
over and your problems
are still going to be
there, (ECHOING) be there.
Are you talking to me?
Well of course I am.
Whoa.
I'm going to send some friends
to you, and they're experts,
and they're going to show
you how to use the keys.
Really?
You know what the
keys are, right?
[DOORBELL RINGING]
Hi, I'm Elizabeth.
I got your message.
-I'm sorry.
You must have the wrong house.
Your subconscious sent for me.
Sometimes we're not always aware
of it, but you sent for me.
Look, if this going
to end with you
giving me some kind of pamphlet,
can we just cut to the chase?
No.
I'm here to show you the
keys and make sure you
remember how to use them.
OK.
Thank you.
Just closing the door on
the crazy visitor now.
Thanks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Oh, Jesus.
Is this one of those waking
dreams like where I'm dreaming
but I know that I'm dreaming?
Is that what this is?
WOMAN: Why don't
you come with me?
You know that's
the closet, right?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Wow.
What is this place?
In your reality, it's
actually a very real structure
built over an energy vortex.
We entered through
a portal because
of your subconscious longing
to be more than you've been.
-That cannot be true.
-It is true.
Come with me.
-I am not for a second--
I'm going to show you.
There are seven
powerful keys to living
the life that you desire.
Let's start with Jack.
What do you mean?
WOMAN: You'll see.
Hi, Jack.
Hey Elizabeth.
How are you?
Can he see me?
Yes he can.
Of course I can.
That's cool.
Well, would you like to
hear what I'm working on?
I'd love to.
I'm writing this whole
thing about a formula called
e plus r equals o, that
there are events that occur
in your life, and then you
have a response to that event,
and then you get an outcome.
And what most people do when
they don't get the outcome
they want is they
blame the event.
They blame the government,
the weather, their parents
were alcoholics, their boss
is a jerk, whatever it is.
And what we're
seeing is that people
need to realize that the only
thing that's going to produce
a better outcome, more
of what you want in life,
is by changing your response,
because the event's not
going to change.
And so we have to
change our thinking.
We have to change the
pictures we hold in our head.
We have to change
our beliefs, and we
have to change our behaviors.
And when we do that,
then we can start
producing different outcomes.
That's so true.
Can I talk to Michael?
Sure, of course.
OK, good.
You have a habit of failing.
You're used to failing.
You know, it's comfortable
to fail for you.
Isn't that true?
Abused women will go back to
their abusing husbands over
and over and over.
It's not a good thing,
but it's comfortable.
They're used to it.
So you just have to
believe that it's
possible to create a success
and set a goal, commit to it.
And what I teach is something
called the rule of five.
Take five action
steps every day.
Michael, when I did "Chicken
Soup for the Soul," which
has now sold 500 million
books around the world,
it was rejected
by 144 publishers
over the course of 14 months.
144 publishers said, people
will not read those stories.
It's a stupid title.
It's not sexy.
It's not urbane.
People don't read
collections of short stories.
And I could have
given up after 100.
If I'd given up
after 100, I would
not be standing here right now.
Failure is part of success.
You might want to listen
to what he has to say.
I'm all ears.
Thank you ultra
successful wise one.
That a good title.
-That's fine.
Oh, you're the angry guy.
I heard something about you.
Well at least I have a title.
That's something.
So you've really felt
like you've had a bad day
and nothing's going
your way, and you
kind of feel like the
universe is not on your side.
You know, one of the
things that I have found
is that people who
are happiest, people
who are living their best
lives, they have one belief,
and I'm going to ask you to try
this one on for just a minute.
The belief is that we live
in a friendly universe.
Einstein said that
the most important
question you could
ever ask yourself
is is this a friendly universe?
And if you believe
that in fact it is,
that the universe
is on your side
and that everything
that's happening to you
is happening actually
for a reason,
it's happening to support
you, I'm going to ask you
to ask yourself this question.
If this were happening
for a higher purpose,
what would that purpose be?
I don't have to mow the
lawn or pay for date night.
OK.
Everybody is put here on
this planet for a reason.
It's not an accident
that you're here.
And what you're here to
do is uniquely yours,
and it'll look
different than mine.
It'll look different
than everybody else's.
And you know, for a long time, I
thought that all I need in life
was to have success
and then I'd be happy.
And I actually had
five things I thought
I needed to be successful.
I'll have a great career,
I'll have a wonderful family,
I'll have loving friends,
I'll have a comfortable home,
and I'll have the equivalent
of Halle Berry's body.
Well, I got four
out of the five.
I don't have Halle Berry's
body, but I got a great career,
fabulous home, wonderful
partner, great friends,
and healthy body.
And I found that at the height
of all of the success in life,
it still wasn't enough.
I had three books in the "New
York Times" bestseller list.
I had just given a
talk to 8,000 people.
I had signed 5,432 books.
I remember that night
going up to my hotel room.
It was the penthouse suite.
I plopped onto the bed
and I burst out into tears
because I realized
that even though I had
everything that I
thought I wanted in life,
I felt an emptiness inside.
You think that getting
all of these things
or having all of this
success is what's
going to do it, make
you happy inside,
you've got it backwards.
When you raise your
happiness level,
when you feel
better inside, when
you raise your
energetic vibration,
you create an entirely
different world around you.
The success that
you want is going
to come from inside
first, and then
the outer world will follow.
So I'm going to ask you to
do an exercise with me, OK?
Oh, can we.
Too intense.
I'm going to show you how
you can move from the stress
response, which is what
you're in right now--
you're feeling pretty stressed
out-- into what science
calls the love response.
It's three steps.
First step is very simple.
You put the palm of your
hand over your heart.
That simple act
starts the release
of a chemical called oxytocin.
Oxytocin is called
the love hormone.
It's what helps us feel
more love and bonding
with each other,
but you can feel
it yourself just by putting
your hand over your heart area.
That's step number one.
Here's step number two.
I want you to
imagine that you're
breathing in and out through
the center of your heart.
Just picture or feel
that your breath
is coming in and out through
the center of your heart.
And then the third step.
On each in breath, I
want you to imagine
that you're breathing in love.
You're breathing in ease.
You're breathing in compassion.
And you can exhale
normally, but just
inhale, breathing in ease
and love and compassion,
and exhale normally.
Now, doing this
takes about a minute.
And doing it one time, you
may feel a little bit better
right now.
But here's the real trick.
Do this three,
four, or five times
today, and do this
that way every day
for the next couple
weeks, and you
will notice that you'll be
more and more in the habit
of being in the love response.
It's so simple.
You think, oh, that's so easy.
That couldn't possibly do
anything, but it's powerful.
I want you to try
it out every day
for the next few weeks,
three, four times a day,
and just see how you feel.
Do it is an experiment and
you'll lift your love response.
So are Jack and
Marci dreaming too?
Actually, it's their
essence which they
consciously projected outward.
Your inner search has
drawn their energy
here to this vortex, which
stands outside of time itself.
I have no idea what
you're talking about, none.
It's not important
that you understand.
Just know they're
here to help you.
Relationships are ending
every day, and people pick up.
They make their lives
better as a result of it.
When a relationship ends,
you want to look at how
you contributed to it ending.
And how do you know that?
Because you're certainly
doing the best you can.
What did your partner tell you?
There's always some truth.
Where there's
smoke, there's fire.
If she says you're too
negative, you're too negative.
You need to look at that.
You need to look at how
am I being too negative?
And you probably feel
you're just being yourself.
Well, for that person,
you're too negative.
Or maybe you might
think, well, everybody's
going to think
you're too negative,
and then you have to
make some adjustments.
You don't have to
adjust who you are.
You have to adjust how you
communicate who you are.
When you feel angry
inside, you have
to realize if you express
that anger to someone,
they'll take it as rejection.
They may become afraid.
They may feel abandoned.
They may be scared.
You don't know what reaction
you're having, but if you're
getting a negative reaction
to expressing your anger,
then you need to learn how
to express it in a way that
doesn't create that reaction.
You can be angry, but
how do you communicate
how you feel to another person?
In terms of rebuilding
a relationship,
there may be no chance.
Once you've lost trust, it's
often hard to rebuild it.
It does happen, though.
If you can look and do an
inventory of yourself--
how have I contributed to the
problems in this relationship,
how have I not heard my
partner-- that doesn't
mean you're completely wrong.
There's always two
sides to every issue.
But if you want to
take responsibility
to attract her back, to
create that relationship,
or to create a better
relationship in the future,
you have to look at how you
communicated what you feel
and the absence of
your positive feelings.
Look at how to communicate
That's going to draw
the best in another.
These pictures represent
others in the dream state
who wish to interact with you.
MICHAEL: What do
you mean represent?
ELIZABETH: Take a closer look.
He looks kind of sensitive.
Maybe you shouldn't scare him.
-OK.
I'm sorry.
I'm trapped in a "Harry
Potter" knockoff.
Ooh.
[INAUDIBLE]
OK.
Let's go past the wall
of talking pictures.
I'm just better one on one.
A few years ago, I was
working 16 hours a day.
I was failing in my business.
Most importantly, I was missing
all the time with my wife
and with my children.
And the funny thing is, when
I was spending time with them,
many years later they
would say to me Dad,
do you remember this?
Dad, do you remember that?
And you said this,
and we said that.
And I didn't remember,
because even when I did have
time with them, I wasn't there.
I wasn't in the room.
I was somewhere else
thinking about work
or to pay those bills.
That's the tragedy of
not being your true self.
When you're your true self, you
can remember all the moments
and you can have more of them.
My clients were
running me ragged.
They were abusing me.
In fact, one night,
I was so tired
driving home I
nearly killed myself
crashing on the motor way.
And after 18 years in
business, I wasn't depressed,
but I was clinically unhappy.
Very late one night,
I'm in my office.
It's about quarter
to 10:00 at night
and the security guard came
into the office to lock up,
and I said, just give
me 10 more minutes.
He said, Derek, what time
did you get in this morning?
I just said, well,
8:00, 8:00 AM.
And as he walked away, my
words just hung in the air.
And I put my hand on the
top of the filing cabinet
and I slammed the door, and
I said, I just had enough,
and in that moment
is when I changed.
So immediately, I set
about setting new standards
for the whole of my life.
I made a decision to use
the key of appreciation
and to look at all
areas of my life
and set new, higher standards
for all of those areas
and commit to living
at those high standards
from that point onwards.
In England, I'm known
as the standards guy.
I set really high
standards for myself,
and I stick at those standards.
How I changed my life was
that I used to set goals.
I set goals for 18 years.
But until that
night in the office,
I was a failure on every level.
See, this guy makes
sense to me because it's
not some mystical process.
It's not a five day retreat.
He just made a decision.
Bang, it's done.
That's all it takes.
I like that.
When I set standards, my
life changed overnight.
Within three years, I
become a millionaire.
(WHISPERING) Millionaire.
In the following year, I made
$1 million in just that year,
and I did it by
working half the time.
You can start by
setting standards
in all the areas of your life
that you're unhappy with,
or even angry with, and
decide how you really
want to feel in those areas.
And just one day at a time,
just stick at that standard.
See, it's like a goal.
We're not saying do this
for the rest of your life.
Just do it for
today, for one day,
and stick at your standard.
I got a piece of paper and I
wrote out my weekly timetable,
and at the start of
every single day,
it would say dad taking
children to school.
And every day would
finish differently.
And three days a week, it
was dad picking children up
from school and have client
time, non-client time,
weekends, and family time.
I worked out this
whole week schedule
and I actually laminated
it, and I gave one
to each member of the
family, to each child,
to my wife, and the last copy,
I put with a fridge magnet
onto the fridge so everyone
would know this is the new dad.
This is his new standards.
One of the things
when you set standards
is that the people
around you in the world
will try and judge you or see
you at your old standards.
And what you have to do
is be patient with them
and let them know that this is
the new you, the new standards,
and let them catch up
with where you are.
Once I set standards,
I discovered
and appreciated my true self.
And as my true self, I changed.
And when I changed,
everything changed for me.
That's Derek Mills.
I love this guy.
He's so stylish and
perfect, though.
I don't think I can
do what he's doing.
I do want to be him in
my next life, though.
(IN BRITISH ACCENT) I'm going
to stick at my standards.
Shall we?
Stick at our standards.
Go on.
Say it five times fast.
I dare you.
-Stick to your standards?
Yeah.
You should stick
to your standards.
But say it fast.
Stick your standards.
Stick to your standards.
-That's all right.
I'm sorry I asked.
-Stick to your standards.
-I got it.
OK. (WHISPERING)
What was I thinking?
Jeez.
You know, one the
secrets I've learned
for being successful
in life is to come
from a place of appreciation.
What I've found is when you
start appreciating what you
already have, then you're
creating a vibration
of appreciation and
the universe sends you
more to be appreciative for.
What most people focus on
is what they don't have,
and then you get more
of what you don't want.
People talk about I don't
want this to happen.
I wish that wasn't happening.
I don't have this.
I don't have that.
And then they're
getting more of that,
and if you take what you've
got and start appreciating it,
literally life gets
very, very magical.
Just as you want
to be appreciated,
how do you feel when
you're appreciated?
You just want to give
more and more and more.
That's how women will feel
when you appreciate them,
and we men are the worst
at appreciating women.
We don't appreciate each other.
We're competing with each other.
We don't realize why we
love women so much is
that women have that
ability to delight
in all the little things we do.
But they also have
the ability to be
upset about the little
things we don't do.
Now, that's a given.
We have to realize, we, we're
just sort of like cool, calm,
don't worry about
it, no big deal,
it's not that,
it's not important.
In dealing with
a woman, you just
have to amp it up
a little bit more
and point out the little things.
Oh, you did that?
Oh, I'm so glad you did that.
Oh, you did this?
And even if you
can't amp it up too
much because you're a guy,
what you can do is ask
what did she do?
What did she-- you
know, what's going on?
And she will take
that opportunity
to tell you all the
things that she did,
and she'll often be
frustrated about it.
And then you wonder, OK,
what am I supposed to say?
This is the magic thing to say.
You listen.
You say, really?
Tell me more.
Really?
And then when she seems
to be done, then you say--
[SIGH]
--you give so much
to so many people.
Let me give you a hug.
And you give her a hug, and
she will feel appreciated.
MICHAEL: Genius.
What was the phrase?
You give so much
to so many people.
Let me give you a hug.
Somebody sees me.
Somebody knows what
I'm going through.
That's what makes a
woman feel appreciated.
Give it a try.
You give so much love
to so many people.
Thank you for the
instant critique.
Well, you got to put a
little more feeling into it.
You give so much
to so many people.
Let me give you a hug.
-Say it like you really mean it.
-OK.
All right.
Jeez.
Tone of voice is everything.
You give so much
to so many people.
Let me give you a hug.
That's it.
Simple phrases, I love you.
We don't realize what
a difference it makes.
Just before my 30th
birthday, I found myself going
through a major depression.
I was looking at all my friends.
They were married.
They drove nice cars.
They lived in beautiful houses.
They had adorable kids.
From my perspective, it
looked like they had it all.
I, on the other hand,
was in a relationship
that was going nowhere.
I was renting a
house, leasing a car.
I was living with my four cats.
-Four cats.
I like the four cats part.
I'm going to get four cats.
I have no job, no home, no
income, but I have four cats.
What a babe magnet.
And I'm going to name them
Harmony, Courage, Faith,
and Cheerios for the last one.
Just--
Just so everyone can ask
what's up with Cheerios?
Exactly.
Then I came home
from work one day,
and I was sitting on the
sofa reading a great book,
picking through a box
of imported chocolates,
and I started thinking about
the things that I did have
and that I didn't have
the heavy responsibilities
that all my friends had.
I could do whatever I wanted
to whenever I wanted to do it.
By writing down the
things that I did have,
the universe started to
provide for me in ways that I
could not have even imagined.
Today, I'm married to
the love of my life
and it just keeps
getting better.
It's really easy to
practice gratitude
when everything's going
really well in your life.
You just received a new job,
you met the love of your life.
The challenge comes when
things are not going so well.
I have gotten in the habit of
a daily practice of gratitude
for the last several years,
and it has really helped me
recently as my father suffered
a stroke, one on the left side
of his brain, that has affected
his ability to talk, and think,
and reason.
And to look at a situation
like that with a father
that I absolutely
adore and watching
him go through the pain and
frustration of knowing what he
wants to say and not
being able to communicate
it is heartbreaking.
And yet, I challenge myself
to find gratitude even
within these circumstances.
Even though my father
does not have command
of his entire language,
there are a couple
of phrases that he says
over and over again
every day I go to visit him.
And he says thank you every
day I go to visit him.
And he says, I just want to let
you know how much I love you.
Every day, he shares
his love with me.
Any time anything tragic
happens in a person's life,
something good always
comes out of it.
The key to creating harmony
in your relationships
is always taking
that first step.
How did I contribute
to this problem?
And generally speaking, how
anyone contributes to a problem
is lack of understanding
what the other person's
going through.
And as a man, the
most important thing
that you're missing
in this relationship
is you don't feel appreciated.
You don't feel acknowledged.
That's the bottom line for every
man, because we're out there,
we're struggling,
we're doing what
we think is the right thing.
And then we come home, and
she's got a list of problems.
And you're going, how can you
focus on all those problems
when look what I've just done.
You know, give me a break.
Appreciate me for
what I've done.
If you want to be appreciated
in a relationship,
you have to help
her appreciate you.
I've got to help
her appreciate me?
I should just be appreciated.
All right.
And what men don't realize is
that we think if I do something
big, I should get a whole
lot of appreciation,
and if I do something
little, I should
get just a little appreciation.
But the way women operate
is if you give them
a little gift of love
or a big gift of love,
it has the same effect.
So if you're working
really, really hard,
that's one point in her world.
One point.
One point I get for working.
If you do one rose,
that's one point.
If you give 24 roses, you're
thinking that's 24 points.
But really, it's just one point.
So men are always thinking I
give so much, I give so much.
And look at this, she feels
like she doesn't appreciate me.
What are those little one roses
that you're missing out on?
If you listen a little bit
longer and ask what else,
what else when she's talking,
each time you say what else,
you get another point.
You come home and you give her
a hug, you get another point.
You look her in the eyes and
give her a compliment, oh
my gosh, you've got two points.
You looked at her and you
gave her a compliment.
You plan a date six
days in advance--
Six days in advance?
How am I going to know what
I want to do in six days?
Instead of waiting till
Friday night to say, hey,
what do you want to
do tonight, and you're
both tired and exhausted, you
decide to stay home and watch
TV, you get no points.
But a week in advance
you say, hey, let's
go out on a date next weekend.
How about this or this or this?
And she says, oh, this.
And you go great, let's do that.
She'll be telling all her
friends, oh, I'm going to see
this concert with my husband.
Every time she brags about
you, you get a point.
Wait, I get a point?
I like points.
I get a point?
-Mm-hmm.
All right.
And that's three or
four points every day.
You're cashing in the
points and you think, hey,
I should be getting all
the points because I'm
working really hard.
Working hard is good,
but it's just one point.
Hey, can I apply for credit?
For all that you've
done in the past,
those efforts will
be appreciated
if you can come back and start
focusing on the little things
and let her know
that you ignored
her, that you
neglected her, that you
forgot to do those things.
You forgot what was important.
And when you let her know
that you lost your way,
her heart starts
to open and then
she also starts to remember
all that you've done.
So you'll get that credit,
but to keep her heart open,
it's the little
things that count.
Would you like to play a game?
I don't really like games.
Here's $1,000.
Ooh, let's play.
Every time you voice
a negative thought,
you have to give
me back $100 bill.
That's the game?
That's the game.
That's-- sounds like a
wonderful and exciting
game filled with festivity.
So can I ask you something?
Sure.
The whole people talking
in the pictures thing,
is that to test me?
-Is it to test you?
-Come on.
You can tell me.
Is that a test?
You think so?
I'm already
moderately skeptical
about the whole subject
matter, and then
with the whole low rent
"Harry Potter" delivery,
it's just bugging me.
Why is it bugging you?
Are you going to answer every
question with a question?
Am I?
Oh, hell.
Somebody wake me up.
Somebody--
I started developing a
technique called Aqua Motion
where I would do body work along
with the floating in the water
to relieve any aches and pains.
In today's society, we
don't get touched enough.
We hardly ever get touched.
And a lot of people don't
even like to be touched
or to touch others.
But it's been proven
through studies that we
can die from the lack of touch.
Excuse me.
I got to-- I got to
ask you something.
Is what she's
talking about legal?
Of course.
There's no funds
exchanged of any kind?
No.
Right.
I was thinking something bad.
Sorry, we just had
to discuss something.
ELIZABETH: Kathleen,
would you please
share how your journey began?
-Sure.
ELIZABETH: I think it'll help.
-Yeah.
Water therapy is where people
who cannot tolerate dry
land therapy go into the pool.
So there was one
lady who came to me,
and she was a massage
therapist as well
but had never had massage
work done in the water.
Her husband, who had been
affected and depressed
by the downturn of the economy,
decided to take his own life.
And then just several months
later, one of her sisters
was diagnosed with cancer
and died shortly thereafter.
I could see those
emotional things
being released into the water.
There was a sense of
calmness that came over her.
And you can just see
it in their bodies,
the way they start
off stiffly and then
start to move like in a dance.
And as we emerged
from the water,
she was sobbing uncontrollably
and did for several minutes
until she could
regain her composure.
I received a letter from
her a few days later stating
that her husband and her sister
had come to her to let her know
that they were fine
and that they wanted
her to move on with her life.
So she said that
at that session,
her emotional traumas had
been completely released
and she felt like she could
move forward for the first time
in several years.
We never know from time
to time, from session
to session, what will happen.
But just being touched
is so important,
and being in a
space where you can
allow your emotions
to completely let go,
it's a sacred space.
And the vibration of the water
just heals on all levels.
Michael, when your
reality is not the reality
you want to experience,
whether at home,
at work, in your
relationships, you
can begin to change that reality
by changing your language.
Really think before you speak.
I would even say think
about what you're thinking.
Think before you think.
Think before you speak.
Think before you act.
I haven't done that since 1985.
ELIZABETH: And where
has that gotten you?
Loserville.
[INAUDIBLE]
Improving the
dialogue you have with
yourself will change
your reality in ways
that you cannot now imagine.
For the last 15 years of
my grandmother's life,
she suffered from dementia.
For the first three
of those 15 years,
my grandfather was able
to take care of her.
He would take her into the homes
where he would tune pianos,
and she would sit there
quietly, watching and listening.
But then her condition
progressively got worse.
She became combative.
She resisted every effort
that my grandfather
made to take care of her.
She began to run away from him.
I remember talking
with my grandfather
as he wrestled with the decision
to put her in a nursing home.
He anguished over that.
But I also realized
that wasn't just
anguishing over that decision.
It was because he was being
confronted with the brevity
of life and the realization
that all good things
must come to an end, even a
great marriage of 68 years.
He cried as he said, it's
all over too quick, Ken.
For the next 12 years, he
made the round trip, 20 miles,
to visit Grandma every day.
Grandma eventually forgot
everything from her past.
She forgot how to speak.
She forgot my mother.
She forgot me.
She forgot Grandpa, but
Grandpa did not forget her.
I overheard one day
someone ask him,
why do you go see your
wife every single day?
She's not the same
woman she once was.
Why, she doesn't even
know who you are.
And Grandpa said, that's true.
She doesn't know who I am.
But I know who I am.
I'm the same man who
68 years ago told her
that I would love
her, honor her,
and keep her in sickness and in
health till death do us part.
I love her more now than
I did when I said I do.
You know, in order
to be successful,
you have to find out
something that lights you up,
something that gives
you excitement,
that makes you want to get
out of bed in the morning.
You know, when I
was younger, someone
had me sit down and write a
list of 20 things I love to do,
and it was a broad list.
I loved to go to war movies.
I loved to open my mail.
I loved to solve problems.
I loved to have high
level conversations.
I loved to make a
difference in the world.
And then he said, find
a way to make money
doing that which you love.
A friend of mine is a surfer.
The woman who surfs,
she loves surfing.
So how do you make
money surfing?
She takes women executives on
her boat in Hawaii for a week
and she teaches
them how to surf,
and what she notices is
whatever that shows up
in their fear of
approaching surfing
or how they approach it
is the same thing that
shows up in the boardroom
and in their offices.
And she charges like
$5,000 or $10,000 a person,
and she makes $50,000 or $60,000
a month doing what she loves.
So Michael, find out
what it is you love
to do and then ask
yourself, how could I
make a living doing that?
And you may have to
experiment with a number
of different things, but if
you stick with it long enough,
you'll find a way to live
your life with passion.
Friend of mine said, when your
vocation feels like a vacation,
you have arrived, and that's
possible for everybody.
So you're familiar
with Jack's work?
Oh, yeah.
Anne loves his "Chicken
Soup for the Soul" series.
She's read, like,
nine of his books.
Wonderful.
I had a dream that
Jack Canfield and I were
working on a book together.
It's called "Chicken Soup
for the Jaded Old Bastard."
So the key to
living your passion
is to be completely
open to following what
your heart tells you to do that
is uniquely yours on the planet
to do.
All right, but what if my heart
tells me to lay on the couch,
eat a lot of bad
junk food, and watch
reruns of "Sanford and Son"?
You ever seen "Sanford and Son"?
It's funny, really funny.
Your heart is actually not
telling you to lay on the couch
and eat a whole bunch of bad
food and watch bad movies.
That is probably from your fear.
If you were to go deeper and
really say, OK, what am I here
for, your heart would tell you
something completely different.
And you know it's your heart
when you feel inspired by it,
when it opens you up,
when you feel expanded.
I love seeing what I
can accomplish and know
that I can do anything because
I have such strong passion
for everything that I do.
At 10, I became a
level 10 gymnast.
At 13, I had published
my second book.
At 16, I graduated valedictorian
from my high school class.
And by the time I was 18,
I had three books published
and was hosting my
own television show.
I have more cable channels
than anybody on my block.
That's a great accomplishment.
Congratulations.
An outsider may look
at my accomplishments
and say that I must have
a lot of discipline.
Discipline often comes
with the connotation
of making a lot of sacrifices.
The difference between
someone who merely acts out
of discipline and someone
who owns the key to passion
is that when you're
engaged in your passion,
the joy of self expression is
brought to a whole new level.
This is why when you're
engaged in your passion,
it's often called
the labor of love.
There's the labor part.
But when you love
what you're doing,
it hardly feels like work.
Michael, Raven said she felt
she was put on this Earth
to do great things.
Do you ever feel like you
were put on this Earth
to do great things?
Hmm.
Yeah, no.
No, sorry.
I love Napoleon Hill.
He once said, no one
is richer than those
who have found
their labor of love
and are busily engaged
in performing it.
It's the highest form of
our expression of desire.
It is the forerunner
of all human progress.
You know, my life
has often felt
like an 18 wheeler going
downhill through the mountains
without any breaks.
I've created,
closed, and currently
operate multiple businesses.
I've been on the
brink of foreclosure
not once, but twice.
So by 2008, life was
going really well.
Business was great, kids
were getting so big, the wife
and I had just
celebrated 11 plus years.
And then I got the
call, and it was my mom.
She told me that my
stepfather, who had raised
me since I was 10, lay dying.
I went there immediately.
The illness that had
consumed his body for years
had finally taken its toll.
And as I held his hand,
I had a profound vision
that really shook me to my core,
a vision of my own funeral.
And as I lay in the casket,
I could hear the words
being spoken graveside.
Here lies Steve Olsher.
He dedicated his life to
chasing the almighty dollar.
And that's all that was said.
And I honestly feel
like my stepfather
spoke to me through that
physical connection,
holding his hand.
He was saying to me, this
is your inevitable fate
if you do not change course.
And he was imploring me
to do something about it.
And I immediately began
to reinvent my life.
I had to rid myself
of the anchors
that were dragging me down, both
the people and the activities.
And more importantly,
I really had
to honor who I inherently am.
See, I believe that
we each have one very
specific powerful gift to share,
and I call that gift your what.
So the question I have for
you is what is your what?
What is my what what?
-What is My what?
-What?
What is your what?
What is my what what?
What is the one thing that
your soul is compelled to do?
The one thing you
were meant to do.
And once you can answer
that question, I promise you,
everything else will
fall into place.
And once you begin pursuing
your what with reckless abandon,
it's amazing what happens.
Things that used to bother you
will carry a lot less weight.
You'll be fired up to jump
out of bed every morning,
and there just won't be
enough hours in the day
to accomplish your objectives.
There's really only
two types of people--
those who meander through life
and never really get to where
they were predestined
to go, and those who
choose to live their passion.
And choosing to live a
life filled with passion
is your key to shifting from
being awake to being alive.
At those times in our life
when nothing is coming together,
where we're scared,
where we're sad,
we're feeling very much alone,
no one understands what we're
going through,
during these times,
it seems to take all our energy,
all our will, just to survive.
Amen, sister.
At this point, a
better quality of life
seems next to impossible.
Yet, if we could focus even
the smallest amount of energy
and intention on what it
is that we really want,
we'll begin to recognize
that the key to living
that fulfilling life
is by connecting
and engaging with our passion.
It takes being
willing to acknowledge
that we want something
better and expressing it
in a positive way.
I want something better.
That's a good start.
That's it?
That's all I got to do?
I want something.
I'm fed up, and I
want something better.
Good for you.
MICHAEL: Am I taking the advice?
Am I doing it right?
ELIZABETH: You're getting there.
I want something better.
OK.
Really good.
I'm mad as hell, and I
want something better.
Felt sort of Chayefsky
there, didn't I?
Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Very good.
I speak about doing
what it takes and passion
from my own experience.
I was the youngest
woman in the '80s
to buy a seat on the American
Stock Exchange and build a firm
and go global.
And then one day, a
clerk made a mistake,
and everything I built up
came unraveled in a moment.
You know, I could
have so easily gotten
caught in the blame game.
And yet, I focused my
attention, my energy,
on what it was that I
wanted, and I went to work
and I rebuilt everything.
10 years later, I lived on
Wall Street, had an office
in the World Trade Center.
And then the tragedy of
September 11th occurred.
I had a standing appointment
on Tuesday mornings
in my office at
the Trade Center.
And Monday September 10,
at 4:30 in the afternoon,
that appointment was canceled.
I went in early,
dropped my stuff,
and headed to the Upper
West Side of Manhattan.
For so many people, if you
were doing what you were doing
and didn't have
access to TV or radio
or were just in a room with
people, you had no idea.
And I didn't have any idea.
I left to go, and the
person I'd been meeting with
came running out after
me and said something
had happened downtown.
Challenges do make us stronger
and then help us to grow.
When the economy was
hit, so many people
went through such tough times.
I was no exception.
Yet my passion to live a
quality life and to be happy
was a key for me to be
appreciative, to be happy.
If you want more out
of life and you're not
willing to give yourself
permission to go for what
you want, then pause, stop.
Go outside.
Check out a sunrise or
look up at the stars.
Take 20 minutes and
watch some children play.
Talk to someone 20, 30
years older than you
and ask them what they would do
if they were suddenly your age.
Pausing to take in
the world around us
can really give us
a fresh perspective.
It's a powerful reminder that
the time to begin is now.
The time to act is right now.
It takes courage to
connect with our passion,
and our passion actually
fuels our courage.
Even though it might not be
recognizable at the time,
we do what we need to
do because we love life.
We want a quality of life.
A part of us never
wants to settle.
Yet that often seems easier.
The truth is, it
takes a lot of energy
to suffer and not be happy.
Choose to engage
with your passion.
Choose today.
Choose now to live your
best life in this lifetime.
I promise, you have the
resources and the capacity
to have it be.
There's really two levels
of faith as I see it.
You have to have
faith in yourself,
and you have to have faith
in the universe, source, God,
however you call that, because
you have to act as if you
can do what you want to do.
Everybody's born
with the talents
that they need to fulfill
the dreams that they have.
You cannot dream a dream
that you don't have
the capacity to fulfill.
You wouldn't be
allowed to experience
that dream inside of yourself.
There's no special
people on the planet.
Everybody's born with the
same kinds of talents.
Different talents,
but we all have them.
And if you believe
that and act as if
and lean into that, what
you're going to find
is that this will
start to show up.
And the other
thing is to believe
that if you take the
first step toward that,
the universe is going to
take a step back to you.
Or You can have the faith that
there's going to be support,
that opportunities and resources
will appear in your path,
but only when you start to move.
You know, you have to
take an action to get
feedback from the universe.
You have to take an
action to be supported.
The universe can't support
what it doesn't see happening,
so you've got to take
that first step in faith.
The secret to having
faith is to recognize
you are responsible
for creating your life.
As long as you depend on others
to create your life, then
you're not believing.
You're not believing in
yourself and in your power
to create what you want.
The key of faith
lies in believing
in the people around us.
By the time I was
in eighth grade,
I was really
interested in horses.
Picture me, young
teenager, typical teenager.
But I had all these tutors to
help me get through school.
I had braces on my
teeth for five years.
I mistrusted myself.
I didn't know who I was.
I challenged
everything that I did,
and I was pretty frustrated.
One day, my dad brought
home a picture, a portrait
of a beautiful horse, and
he hung it on my wall,
and then he turned
to me and he said,
this was a very small horse.
He had bad knees.
Nobody thought he
could ever win a race.
But his trainer did.
His trainer believed in him.
And Seabiscuit won the
greatest race ever.
And by the way, Carolyn,
that happened the year
you were born.
If a horse can overcome his
challenges, you can too.
That day, my dad gave
me the key to faith
because he shared with me
that he truly believed in me,
and I never lost it.
Ooh, I love that
movie, "Seabiscuit."
Fabulous, horse.
Fabulous movie.
Yeah.
Just because a horse is
broken down a little bit
doesn't mean you put
him out to pasture.
Think about that.
Chris Cooper won the
Oscar with that one line.
But think about the message.
Just because you're
broken down a little bit
doesn't mean it's over.
Why are you looking at
me when you say that?
My family was on vacation in
Lake Chautauqua in New York
State, and we are all
around the television
watching our little black and
white TV of the moon landing.
And my thoughts just went
to, I want to do that.
And I applied for the NASA
teacher in space program.
It was very clear
that there would
be one teacher, one
teacher that would
be invited to go into space.
It was a long, written
essay application,
and I made it through
the first cut,
and then waited for
the second round
and made it through
the second cut.
After the second cut,
it just confirmed
for me that this was my path.
So when I failed to
make the third cut,
I was sure that NASA
and divine intelligence
had made huge mistakes.
About a year later, I remember
watching the Challenger launch
with my students and other
teachers, this space shuttle
that carried Christa McAuliffe,
the sacred vessel that was
going to carry her into space.
When we watched and we
noticed that something
was going terribly wrong,
I remember just my
legs became weak.
This could not be happening.
It's interesting how we
work to manifest things
and we're so sure that
we control our destiny.
Yet, there's this partnership
with infinite intelligence
that I found important
to put into place.
Without this partnership,
we're sort of this vessel
that's floating on the sea.
I would say this was a
pivotal point for me.
This was a point at which I
faced this thing called faith.
In my culture, sons were
favored over daughters.
So when I was born,
my parents were
excited to have
their first child,
and they were also disappointed
that I wasn't a boy.
I have two younger
sisters and no brothers,
so my dad always calls me his
substitute son, and I hated it,
I hated it with passion, because
it just meant that I wasn't
good enough for him, and I
would never be good enough
for him because I wasn't a son.
Now my mom, on the
other hand, told me
that for a girl to be happy,
she must find a good husband.
A girl must be
beautiful, she said,
or she has to come
from a rich family,
or she has a great education.
Then she looked at me and said,
Hueina, you are not pretty
and we are not rich, so
you better study hard.
So I did.
I became an overachiever,
people pleaser, perfectionist,
and excelled in
everything I did.
But no matter how
much I achieved,
I never felt good enough.
My relationships with men was
one disaster after another
until I made one decision
that saved my life.
I was in my 20s, and I just
move from Asia to the US
far away from all my
friends and family.
I had dated three men in
a row who cheated on me
and I completely fell apart.
I was so stressed out,
depressed, and suicidal
until one morning, I woke up.
I mean, I really woke
up, and I got angry.
Those men were not
worthy of my love,
and I realized that I
deserve so much more.
I made one decision
that morning.
If nobody in the world would
love me, I would love myself.
If I couldn't fit in
or blend in anywhere,
I would stand out and be myself.
If I were to have a chance
at success with happiness,
I must learn to believe in
myself and do it my way.
That one decision
changed everything.
I finally realized that my
parents, even though they
didn't love me the way I
wanted them to love me,
they were doing their best.
And I realized that whatever
happened in my life was just
training me to become
who I'm meant to be,
and I actually learned to
be grateful for my parents.
And I say that in my book
too, and I wrote that it's
dedicated to my parents.
And I say, I am who I
am today because of you,
and I meant that.
If I could go back in time
and talk to my younger self,
I would say to her that you are
already perfect just the way
you are, even though
you might feel
that you are different
from everybody else,
you are beautiful and
powerful, and don't let anybody
else tell you otherwise.
You don't need to
compare yourself.
compete with others.
No apologies.
Just you, whatever you want.
You know, the greatest skill
you can learn in terms of being
successful is to learn to manage
your internal emotional states.
And by that, we mean
creating a vibrational field.
We talk about love,
we talk about harmony,
we talk about gratitude
and appreciation, joy.
You can actually generate
those states internally.
There are skills that
you can learn to do that.
And if you learn to do
that, what's going to happen
is you won't be dependent on
other people outside of you
to feel good.
You'll be able to generate
your feel good inside of you.
You know, everything in
the universe is energy,
and love is the highest
energetic vibration
on the planet.
The reason that we all feel
so good when we fall in love
is because it's uplifting us.
It's bringing us to this other
energy vibration of love.
But the real key is
to actually experience
that love from inside first.
So you're raising what I
call your love set point.
Right now, you've got
a certain ceiling,
and that's the love
you're familiar with.
What we can do, though, is we
can show you how you can raise
your energetic vibration so that
you're carrying around a higher
love set point, and then
you feel more love inside
and you draw more
love to you from that.
That's the basis
of creating greater
harmony in every relationship.
Negative emotions and
positive emotions both
create a vibration, and
we can become addicted
to the vibration
of those emotions,
and I know this because
it happened to me.
My son John died
of a drug overdose
just shortly after
a head injury.
He was a beautiful musician,
very, very talented.
It was the most important
thing in his life.
And after he died, I
was able to pretend
that life was perfectly normal.
I got up every day, showed
up at work, and functioned,
but the truth is that I was not.
I used every opportunity that
I could find to be alone,
to cry, and to grieve.
I would start in the morning.
I would drive my
grandchildren to school
so that I could be alone
for 40 minutes in the car
and listen to his music.
Then at the end of the day,
I would go on the boat,
but then it was OK for me to
have a glass of wine and cry.
But what nobody knew
was that I would
go to my office every day,
and I would close the door,
and I would open up all
the DVDs of John's life.
I would put them into the
computer one after another,
day after day, and sit
there alone secretly crying.
One day, I started my ritual.
I put the DVD in.
First one, didn't work.
Second one, didn't work.
I went all the way through
to about the 15th DVD
thinking something has to work.
This can't be true.
All these videos can't not work.
So finally, I put
the last one in.
Now on this video, there happens
to be a clip of John practicing
for a talent contest
with his sister Michelle,
and they absolutely
hated when I filmed them.
When John saw me at the
top of the stairs filming,
he looked up and he screamed,
Mom, turn the damn thing off.
Now, when I put
that last video in,
it didn't start
at the beginning.
It went right to that one line--
Mom, turn the damn thing off.
So naturally, I took it out, I
cleaned it, I put it back in.
Mom, turn the damn thing off.
That's cool.
That's like "Paranormal
Activity" right there.
On about the fifth time,
it was an awakening for me.
He was trying to
get through to tell
me that I was so
addicted to grieving him
that I needed to stop.
This was my awakening.
I made a decision
right there right then
to stop watching his videos.
By doing that, it
allowed the space
for me to become accepting
of what happened in life.
John was my teacher
from the moment
he was born because they
took him away from me
and they put him
in an incubator.
He was tied down naked
and under a sun lamp
because of a liver problem.
For almost 12 days,
I was unable to have
any eye contact with him at
all because of the blindfold.
He was unable to feel my
touch, to hear my voice,
or even feel the heartbeat
that all babies get to feel.
When I brought him home, he
was a really difficult child.
I think that what happened
to him in the incubator
may have had something
to do with that.
But when he was 11, I let
him have guitar lessons,
and I noticed that the
vibrations from the strings
calmed him down.
From that moment on, he had a
guitar, a mandolin, or ukulele
in his hand all the time.
That early birth trauma
can cause a lot of problems
emotionally for children.
Vibration can really help that.
I teamed up with an expert
in the field of vibration
and a behavioral psychologist,
and we created something
called Project Heartbeat
These are musical prescriptions
that include the mother's
heartbeat and the
sound of her voice
that can be placed in an iPod
and put into an incubator.
This way, when the child is
taken away from the mother,
it's never separated from her
vibration, from her voice,
or from her heartbeat.
Although John's
life was cut short,
I understood his purpose,
and his purpose gave
me the courage to fulfill mine.
A banker client of
mine got caught right
in the middle of the recession.
The stock market plummeted,
and many of his clients
lost significant
amounts of money.
And while he still had a job,
he lost a lot of sleepless
nights like so many
of his colleagues
worried about losing it.
The reduced paycheck
along with the strain
of losing other people's money
also affected his marriage.
His wife was ready to walk
and his kids were avoiding him
as he became increasingly
moody and depressed,
and he desperately tried
to avoid that little voice
inside that said somehow,
he may have participated
in creating this situation.
First, he learned
how to meditate,
which enabled them to
remain emotionally centered,
sleep better, and even open
up to some of his clients.
Meditation also strengthened
his thought force
by aligning his thoughts with
the powerful laws of nature,
and life began to flow a little.
Second, he stopped complaining,
and this immediately
elevated the depressed
vibrations that he
was putting out into the world.
And third, he took action.
Rather than just
sitting around being
at the mercy of the market,
he outlined a six point plan
that every one of his investors
could follow to protect
and grow their wealth regardless
of what happened in the stock
market over the short term.
Today, less than three
years later, he's the number
one wealth manager at the bank.
He's making more money than
he ever dreamed of for both
himself and his clients.
He bought $1 million
home for $650,000,
and his wife and
kids are thrilled
to have Dad back again.
I think many people experience
this dark night of the soul
at some point in their lives.
But it's funny,
when you hit bottom,
often there's a small voice
waiting for you that says,
hey, there's nowhere
to go from here but up.
It's at that point, if we accept
100% personal responsibility,
not only for how we
got into the situation
but how we're going to get out,
that we have the opportunity
to break through those
self-imposed limitations
and eliminate any of our
negative core beliefs.
You see, we don't
attract into our life
that which we think
about all the time,
but rather, life is
constantly reflecting
back to us the
vibrations that we're
putting out into the universe.
When you get in touch
with your true nature
and then align your actions
with the essence of who you are
at the core of your
very being, then you
start to see results
in your life,
and you find out where true
transformation comes from.
Then you can make the conscious
s decision to participate
in designing your own destiny.
I just lost my job and my girl.
You got any advice for me?
Number one, meditate.
Honestly, most people I know
that claim to be meditating,
I think they're sleeping.
I think they're
snoozing, loafing.
Number two, stop complaining.
Number three, take action.
The other thing you can
do is double your goal.
You're stuck at a certain
level of thinking,
and the universe is telling
you to think bigger.
You've got to get
outside the box.
You've got to get rid
of that box altogether.
So whatever your
goal was, double it,
and you'll go places, and
see things, and meet people
that you never would have before
because you've got blinders on,
and we've got to get
rid of those blinders.
You know Michael,
one of the mistakes
that people make is they
think that they're going
to wait till there's no fear.
And the fact is, it
doesn't work like that.
You know, I remember when
I was learning to dive off
a diving board, there I was.
I was about six years old.
I was about, I don't
know, four feet high.
The diving board was another
three or four feet to the water
and there was about
nine feet below that.
There was a lot of feet
that I could drown in.
And I didn't get out at
the end of the diving board
and look at my father
and say, you know,
I think I have a fear
of jumping into liquids.
I think I need to
go see a therapist
and I need to get rid of my
fear of jumping in liquids.
Then I'll come back
and I'll do this.
I mean, none of
us ever did that.
What we did is we felt the
fear and we jumped anyway.
And what happened
is, we survived.
And think about this, Michael.
You have survived everything
that ever happened to you.
You're still here.
You know, if you
hadn't survived it,
we wouldn't be having
this conversation.
So the fact is, you
have to feel the fear
and take action anyway.
And once you learn
to do that, you're
going to discover that you find
that it's not that big a deal.
It gets exciting.
Now I do, like, double flips
off the diving board, and bomb
dives, and jump off
high dives, and jump off
waterfalls in Africa
and all kinds of things.
But it was that first
step of feeling the fear
and doing it anyway, and
that's called courage.
And when you have
that-- we all have that.
It's just a matter of
choosing to operationalize it.
One of the keys to a
successful relationship
is the courage to
acknowledge your mistakes.
Our pride gets in the way.
We want to be right.
It takes a big man,
it takes a high being,
to take the high road, and
that's what's being called
upon you here is to acknowledge
how did I contribute
to the problems and
to lower your pride,
to not make yourself the
most important person here,
but to make someone else
just as important as you.
And the first step is
making them more important
and then letting them
make you important.
Don't give up who
you are, but support
who they are so that they
can then see you once again.
And that's how you
resolve things.
Some years ago, I
got shot in the chest
by a deranged stranger
with a 44 Calgary hand gun.
Hit me right here.
Ended up down by
my fifth lumbar.
And I can tell you, I
had post traumatic stress
from this experience, a
severe form of anxiety.
In my recovery from that, I went
looking for some real answers.
I didn't want to just
cope with the situation.
I wanted to actually nail it.
I wanted to really,
thoroughly recover.
The problem is, when you feel
fear and you feel overwhelmed,
it's not going to
make it to just
try and suppress
or deny or ignore
those fears and that feeling.
What's needed is to actually
fully embrace the fear.
But the problem is, we
don't know how to do it.
Nobody ever showed us.
We're all deeply
condition to avoid feeling
things fully like the plague.
This is because
when we're little,
we all get emotionally
overwhelmed,
and I've yet to meet
anybody who liked it.
So what we do-- and it
seems to be universal--
is we tend to put a lid on
accessing our own innate
capacity to feel.
We just don't want to go there.
And so we become
feeling avoidant.
Well, this is a
set up for becoming
really lousy at resolving
things like trauma
and anxiety and fear.
And what we need
to do is we need
to learn how to do the
exact opposite of what
we're deeply conditioned to do.
When it's a traumatic
energy, we need
to go right to the center of the
energy and feel down into it.
Now, the three-year-old
in us does not
think this is a very
good idea, but we
don't want to three-year-old
running our emotional life.
We live in a planet of
people who are basically
emotionally incompetent.
And in order to be
successful in life,
we have to gain
emotional competence.
And the way to do
that is to learn
how to do the exact
opposite of what
we're deeply conditioned to do.
Now, there are two
ways to do that.
One of them is, when we have
something that's overwhelming,
stressful, traumatic,
what we want
to do is dive right into the
center of the most intense part
of the energy of that emotion.
What do I mean by
energy of the emotion?
You can feel the
sensation of the emotion.
That's its energy.
Without that, wouldn't
be feeling anything.
So it turns out, these traumatic
energies have a kind of vortex,
like an eye of a hurricane,
right in their center,
but we never go there
because we're so deeply
conditioned to go away from it.
But if you dive right into
the center of that vortex
and feel all the way down
it right to the bottom,
the whole thing opens
up and it's gone
and it doesn't come back.
The other one is when you
have a reactive emotion,
like a fear, or an anger,
or an upset at some
expectation that didn't get met,
which you've got a lot of right
now.
The energy of those
kinds of emotions,
I call them not useful
emotions, radiates out
into our surroundings, creating
this big cloud or bubble
of energy all around us.
And the way to deal with those
is let your awareness move
outward into the
space around you,
all the way out to the
outer edge of the energy
and out beyond that into
the surrounding quietness.
At The moment you cross over
the edge of that energy field,
the energy will start
to shrink and fade away,
and you'll recognize
you're just projecting
the possibility of a negative
outcome onto the future.
It's a story you're
making up about something.
Doesn't even exist anywhere
except in your own mind.
These are extremely
practical tools,
and you need 'em, Michael.
No argument from this side.
When external forces
in the world come at me
and it feels like I'm
going to be overwhelmed,
it really helps me to
visualize the willow
tree that grows in our yard.
It bends, it flows,
but it doesn't break.
And the reason it doesn't is
because it has its roots so
firmly planted in the earth--
ELIZABETH: You'll
have to excuse him.
He's been through a lot.
Yeah, yeah.
OK.
What I wanted to tell you about
growing up on a farm in Idaho,
and I was very, very blessed
to know from the time
I was a small child
exactly what my destiny
and what my purpose was.
Not everyone has that.
For instance, my parents,
who were farmers,
learned to settle.
They learned to make a
conscious choice to be broke.
Well Michael, you're like
many of the people who
were in this farm community.
They couldn't enjoy what they
have now because they were so
afraid of what was
coming in the future,
and they didn't know if it
would be bad weather, if the hog
prices would be high.
That's my problem right there.
My hog prices are high.
That's the problem.
I've got high hog prices.
ELIZABETH: High hog
prices if you're lucky.
And so they didn't
take any risks.
They didn't dare
try anything new.
They were resolved to stay
in their little safe cocoon.
In my work as a writer, I've
had the great opportunity
to work with people at
the end of their life
and to gather end
of life stories.
And do you know what their top
three regrets are is that they
regret they didn't risk more.
They regret that they
didn't take chances,
that they didn't
start a business,
follow that passion.
The second one is they regret
that they didn't reflect more.
And Michael, what
a great opportunity
you have because you're
in that position.
You can stop right where
you are and you can think,
is this who I want to be?
Is this the kind of
person I want to be?
What is it that makes me happy?
And the third one is interesting
because they wish they
would have contributed more.
They wish they would have given
more time to their family,
to the community,
to the schools.
They wish they would have been
more of a part of their life.
Not let their life
happen to them,
but be the director
of their own life.
Yeah, but what if we
have nothing to give?
You know, Michael, you
always have something to give.
I got nothing.
I got--
That's not true.
I got less than nothing.
I got--
-You have everything.
-I got it.
You don't want it.
You have blessings you
don't even know about.
I'm not saying that
in a poor me way.
I'm just saying, I got nothing.
-Thank you.
-You're greedy.
Isn't that a negative trait?
Maybe you owe one back
this side of the town.
It doesn't work that way.
Not that game.
I admire you for being in
this spot and in this space,
and I know that you can find
out exactly what your destiny is
and find your purpose
that you were born with.
You know Michael, one
of the keys to success
is to have empathy, and
most people don't even
know what that means.
But here's what empathy is.
It's having a
compassionate feeling
and caring for
another human being.
Most people when
they're not successful
are so focused on themselves--
what I want, what I'm not
getting, how the world's
being mean to me,
et cetera-- that they're
not interested in the people
around them.
All you have to do
to develop empathy
is to demonstrate some
caring for another person,
and the best way to
do that is simply
ask them questions and
listen to the answers.
Be curious.
Ask yourself, what's it like
to walk in that person's shoes?
What kind of questions would
I ask them if I wanted to know
what their life experience is?
And if I do that, they
then feel cared about.
So whatever you
want, give it first.
You want attention?
Give attention.
You want to be cared about?
Care about someone else.
Be curious.
Ask questions.
When you were a little
kid, you were curious.
You just have to get back
to that space of ooh,
I wonder what that
person's like.
I wonder what that thing's
like, and allow yourself
to follow that curiosity.
And if you do that, you're going
to see some very magical things
happen in your relationships.
Another of the keys to
a successful relationship
is empathy.
This is what separates us
from the lower animal kingdom
is this front part of the
brain, the prefrontal cortex,
gives us the ability to
hear another point of view.
And when we can hear
another point of view,
we can truly stand
in their shoes.
Right now, you
just see the world
through your perspective-- what
you want, what you don't like,
what you want your life be like.
What about her?
What are her pictures?
Let her know that you can
feel what she's feeling.
You understand what
she's going through.
And with that
compassion that arises,
you have the wisdom
to figure out
and to find the truth of how
to resolve the situation.
When your partner
can sense that you're
relating to them
from that level,
that's what rebuilds trust.
That's what says
you really care.
The key is making sure that
you take the first step.
If you're waiting
for her to change,
if you feel that she has to
change, nothing will happen.
You have the power
to create change
if you take the step first.
What's helped me be
successful is my ability
to be empathetic to my clients.
We're going to call the
doctor that I'm going
to be speaking about Dr. Smith.
There was a surgical team
of about five physicians.
They were working on a child,
and a mistake was made.
And unfortunately,
the child was lost.
In fear of the repercussions
and liability and everything
that goes along with that,
nobody on the surgical team
said a word to the parents with
the exception of one physician,
and that's Dr. Smith.
He was actually doubled
over from the pain.
So he said, I need to express
my empathy with these parents.
He went up to him and
said, I am so sorry.
I don't know what it's
like to be in your shoes,
but I feel for you.
A couple years later, a lawsuit
was brought against them.
It was brought against every one
of them except for Dr. Smith.
So the lawyer involved,
he went to the client
and he asked the child's mother,
why aren't you suing Dr. Smith?
And she said, because he was
the only one that came up to us
and said he was so
sorry and that he cared.
He was human, so
we left him out.
MARCI: It was 1942, and Susi
Penzias had fled Nazi Germany.
She was in Italy
trying to hide away.
And she was taking
a train ride one day
when all of a sudden, two
police officers came on board.
And they were dressed in the
government Fascisti uniforms.
And they were on board
going passenger by passenger
to inspect everyone's papers.
Well, Susi knew
exactly what was going
to happen when they got to her.
She didn't have any
papers, and they
were going to find
here and send her
away to the Nazi concentration
camps to certainly her death.
And as they got closer, Susi
started trembling and sobbing.
And the stranger sitting next to
her on the train looked at her
and said, what's wrong?
Why are you crying?
And she whispered
to him, I'm Jewish
and I don't have any papers.
He paused for a few seconds,
and then he yelled at her.
You idiot.
You imbecile.
I can't believe you did that.
How stupid of you.
She was shocked, and she
began sobbing even more.
And at this commotion,
the two police officers
came over to them and
said, what's going on here?
And the man looked up
at the police officers
and said, officers,
take this woman away.
My wife, she's
forgotten her papers.
I can't believe it.
I have my papers, but
she's forgotten hers.
She always forgets everything.
I'm sick of her.
Take her away.
And at that, the
police officers just
chuckled at the marital
spat and moved on past them.
In one courageous act, that
stranger saved Susi's life.
Susi never saw that man again.
She never even knew his name.
The greatest people in
life are not necessarily
those who are creating
huge businesses,
but they are those who
act in every moment
out of love and compassion.
The last room.
-This is the last room?
-Yes.
All right.
Wait a minute.
I might not want to see it.
If all we're going to
look at is like my funeral
and nobody's there, let's
just skip it and move on.
If what lies beyond this
door are your greatest fears,
you need to face them.
If not--
-What?
What?
Tell me.
You can't just
look away ominously
like that fake movie look.
What?
-Come with me.
Do you see those statues?
They tried to run away
from their own fear,
but they were pulled back by
their suppressed emotions.
Finally, they became so
caught up in their own denial
that they literally froze
within their inner turmoil.
You're going to tell me
that with a straight face?
That is what happened.
I'm sorry, but that is the
worst scare story I've ever
heard in my whole life ever.
Frozen in time by
their fear and denial.
You see them?
I see 'em.
Ooh, look at that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Michael, running away
from your problems
is not the solution, man.
I don't understand.
ELIZABETH: These are
all potential realities.
The possibility of each one
already exists within you,
along with many others.
But none of them are what
you're here to confront.
Your greatest fear is
simply the realization
that you create it all.
(ECHOING) It's up to you.
MICHAEL (VOICEOVER):
Without a doubt,
the craziest dream
I've ever had.
It was really vivid, though,
almost like watching a movie,
or being in one.
Wish I would have woken up
with that $1,000 in my pocket,
or at least the $300 I had left.
That's odd.
Maybe my subconscious
was just flipping out.
I'm sure I'm not the first.
WOMAN: Aren't those cool?
Yeah.
WOMAN: Yeah, they're
very vintage.
They're only a buck.
-Whoa, no thanks.
I was just surprised
to see them here.
Let me know if you
change your mind.
Sally, the coffee truck's
here if you want anything.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC PLAYING]
Your work on that
project was excellent.
Really good.
Really nice.
Can you give us a second.
I see your taste in
art work has improved.
Yes, I'm an expert now.
Is that one yours?
Yes it is.
It's very minimalistic.
What do you call it?
I call it "Infinite
Possibility."
[MUSIC PLAYING]